PACKAGE DOCUMENTATION

package ps
    import "."


FUNCTIONS

func Equal(a, b Coefficient) bool
    Equal discriminates iff coefficient `a` is equal to `b`.

func IsZero(c Coefficient) bool
    IsZero discriminates iff coefficient `c` is equal to zero.

TYPES

type Coefficient = *big.Rat
    Coefficient of a power series - a rational number in this case.

	Note: Coefficients just need to provide:
	`Add(a, b)` as commutative and associative addition with `aZero` as neutral element,
	`Sub(a, b)` as substraction, and `Neg(a)` as convenience for `-a` (so `Add(a, Neg(a)) == aZero`),
	`Mul(a, b)` as commutative and associative multiplication with `aOne` as neutral element,
	`Inv(a)` as the inverse of multiplication `1/a` (for `a` not == aZero).
	`Equal(a, b)` to discriminate iff `a` is equal to `b`.
	`IsZero(a)` to discriminate iff coefficient `a` is equal to zero.

func NewCoefficient(a, b int64) Coefficient
    NewCoefficient returns a new coefficient: the rational `a/b`.

type PsFrom struct {
    *dch.DchFrom
}
    PsFrom receives the next coefficients of a power series upon request.

func Binomial(c Coefficient) PsFrom
    Binomial returns `(1+x)^c`, a finite polynom iff `c` is a positive and
    an alternating infinite power series otherwise.

func Monomial(c Coefficient, n int) PsFrom
    Monomial returns `c * x^n`.

func Polynom(a ...Coefficient) PsFrom
    Polynom converts coefficients, constant term `c` first, to a (finite)
    power series, the polynom in the coefficients.

func (U PsFrom) CMul(c Coefficient) PsFrom
    CMul multiplies `U` by a constant `c` and returns `c*U`.

func (U PsFrom) Deriv() PsFrom
    Deriv differentiates `U` and returns the derivative.

func (U PsFrom) EvalAt(c Coefficient, n int) Coefficient
    EvalAt evaluates a power series at `x=c` for up to `n` terms.

func (U PsFrom) EvalN(c Coefficient, n int) float64
    EvalN evaluates a power series at `x=c` for up to `n` terms in floating
    point.

func (U PsFrom) Exp() PsFrom
    Exp onential of a power series with constant term equal zero:

	Z = exp(U)
	DZ = Z*DU
	integrate to get Z

    Note: The constant term is simply ignored as any nonzero constant term
    would imply nonrational coefficients.

func (From PsFrom) GetWith(With PsFrom) (cU Coefficient, okU bool, cV Coefficient, okV bool)
    GetWith returns each first value received from the two given power
    series together with their respective ok boolean.

func (U PsFrom) Integ(c Coefficient) PsFrom
    Integrate, with const of integration.

func (U PsFrom) Less(V ...PsFrom) PsFrom
    Less subtracts powerseries from `U` and returns the difference.
    Tail-recursion is used to achieve this.

func (U PsFrom) MonMul(n int) PsFrom
    MonMul multiplies `U` by the monomial "x^n" and returns `x^n * U`.

func (U PsFrom) MonSubst(c0 Coefficient, n int) PsFrom
    MonSubst Monomial Substition: `U(c*x^n)` each Ui is multiplied by `c^i`
    and followed by n-1 zeros.

func (U PsFrom) Plus(V ...PsFrom) PsFrom
    Plus adds powerseries to `U` and returns the sum. Tail-recursion is used
    to achieve this.

func (U PsFrom) Print()
    Print one billion terms. Use at Your own risk ;-)

func (U PsFrom) Printer(n int) PsFrom
    Printer returns a copy of `U`, and concurrently prints up to n terms of
    it. Useful to inspect formulas.

func (U PsFrom) Printn(n int)
    Printn prints up to n terms of a power series.

func (U PsFrom) Recip() PsFrom
    Recip rocal of a power series. The algorithm is:

	let U = `u + x*UU`
	let Z = `z + x*ZZ`
	`(u+x*UU)*(z+x*ZZ) = 1`
	`z = 1/u`
	`u*ZZ + z*UU + x*UU*ZZ = 0`

	ZZ = `1/u * -UU * (z + x*ZZ)`
	ZZ = `1/u * (-z*UU + x*UU*ZZ)`

func (U PsFrom) Shift(c Coefficient) PsFrom
    Shift returns `c + x*U`

func (From PsFrom) Split() [2]PsFrom
    Split returns a pair of power series identical to the given one.

func (U PsFrom) Subst(V PsFrom) PsFrom
    Subst itute V for x in U, where the constant term of V is zero:

	let U = `u + x*UU`
	let V = `v + x*VV`
	then Subst(U,V) = `u + VV * Subst(U,VV)`

    Note: Any nonzero constant term of `V` is simply ignored.

func (U PsFrom) Times(V ...PsFrom) PsFrom
    Times multiplies powerseries to `U` and returns the total product.
    Tail-recursion is used to achieve this.

func (U PsFrom) XMul() PsFrom
    XMul multiplies `U` by `x` (by the monomial "x^1") and returns `x * U`.

type PsInto struct {
    *dch.DchInto
}
    PsInto sends the next coefficient of a power series on demand.

func New() (Into PsInto, From PsFrom)
    New returns sender and receiver of coefficients for a power series.

func (Into PsInto) Append(From PsFrom)
    Append all coefficients from `From` into `Into`.

func (Into PsInto) GetNextFrom(From PsFrom) (c Coefficient, ok bool)
    GetNextFrom `From` for `Into` and report success. Follow with
    `Into.Send( f(c) )`, iff ok.

func (Into PsInto) SendCfnFrom(From PsFrom, cfn func(c Coefficient) Coefficient) (ok bool)
    SendCfnFrom `cfn(From)` into `Into` and report success.

SUBDIRECTORIES

	dch.big
	dch.rat

