use 'godoc cmd/github.com/GoLangsam/powser' for documentation on the github.com/GoLangsam/powser command 

PACKAGE DOCUMENTATION

package ps
    import "github.com/GoLangsam/powser"


FUNCTIONS

func Equal(a, b Coefficient) bool
    Equal discriminates iff coefficient `a` is equal to `b`.

func IsZero(c Coefficient) bool
    IsZero discriminates iff coefficient `c` is equal to zero.

TYPES

type Coefficient = *big.Rat
    Coefficient of a power series - a rational number in this case.

	Note: Coefficients just need to provide:
	`Equal(a, b)` to discriminate iff `a` is equal to `b`.
	`IsZero(a)` to discriminate iff coefficient `a` is equal to zero.
	`Add(a, b)` as commutative and associative addition with `aZero` as neutral element,
	`Sub(a, b)` as substraction, and `Neg(a)` as convenience for `-a` (so `Add(a, Neg(a)) == aZero`),
	`Mul(a, b)` as commutative and associative multiplication with `aOne` as neutral element,
	`Inv(a)` as the inverse of multiplication `1/a` (for `a` not == aZero).

	Note: `Inv(a)` is for `U.Recip()` only; remove for coefficients with no inverse.

func NewCoefficient(a, b int64) Coefficient
    NewCoefficient returns a new coefficient: the rational `a/b`.

type PS struct {
    *dch.Dch
}
    PS represents a power series as a demand channel of it's coefficients.

func Binomial(c Coefficient) PS
    Binomial returns `(1+x)^c`, a finite polynom iff `c` is a positive and
    an alternating infinite power series otherwise.

func Monomial(c Coefficient, n int) PS
    Monomial returns `c * x^n`.

func New() PS
    New returns a fresh power series.

func Polynom(a ...Coefficient) PS
    Polynom converts coefficients, constant term `c` first, to a (finite)
    power series, the polynom in the coefficients.

func (Into PS) Append(U PS)
    Append all coefficients from `U` into `Into`.

func (U PS) CMul(c Coefficient) PS
    CMul multiplies `U` by a constant `c` and returns `c*U`.

func (U PS) Deriv() PS
    Deriv differentiates `U` and returns the derivative.

func (U PS) EvalAt(c Coefficient, n int) Coefficient
    EvalAt evaluates a power series at `x=c` for up to `n` terms.

func (U PS) EvalN(c Coefficient, n int) float64
    EvalN evaluates a power series at `x=c` for up to `n` terms in floating
    point.

func (U PS) Exp() PS
    Exp onential of a power series with constant term equal zero:

	Z = exp(U)
	DZ = Z*DU
	integrate to get Z

    Note: The constant term is simply ignored as any nonzero constant term
    would imply nonrational coefficients.

func (Into PS) GetNextFrom(U PS) (c Coefficient, ok bool)
    GetNextFrom `U` for `Into` and report success. Follow with `Into.Send(
    f(c) )`, iff ok.

func (U PS) GetWith(V PS) (cU Coefficient, okU bool, cV Coefficient, okV bool)
    GetWith returns each first value received from the two given power
    series together with their respective ok boolean.

func (U PS) Integ(c Coefficient) PS
    Integrate, with const of integration.

func (U PS) Less(V ...PS) PS
    Less subtracts powerseries from `U` and returns the difference.
    Tail-recursion is used to achieve this.

func (U PS) MonMul(n int) PS
    MonMul multiplies `U` by the monomial "x^n" and returns `x^n * U`.

func (U PS) MonSubst(c0 Coefficient, n int) PS
    MonSubst Monomial Substition: `U(c*x^n)` Each Ui is multiplied by `c^i`
    and followed by n-1 zeros.

func (U PS) Plus(V ...PS) PS
    Plus adds powerseries to `U` and returns the sum. Tail-recursion is used
    to achieve this.

func (U PS) Print()
    Print one billion terms. Use at Your own risk ;-)

func (U PS) Printer(n int) PS
    Printer returns a copy of `U`, and concurrently prints up to n terms of
    it. Useful to inspect formulas.

func (U PS) Printn(n int)
    Printn prints up to n terms of a power series.

func (U PS) Recip() PS
    Recip rocal of a power series. The algorithm is:

	let U = `u + x*UU`
	let Z = `z + x*ZZ`
	`(u+x*UU)*(z+x*ZZ) = 1`
	`z = 1/u`
	`u*ZZ + z*UU + x*UU*ZZ = 0`

	ZZ = `1/u * -UU * (z + x*ZZ)`
	ZZ = `1/u * (-z*UU + x*UU*ZZ)`

func (Into PS) SendCfnFrom(From PS, cfn func(c Coefficient) Coefficient) (ok bool)
    SendCfnFrom `cfn(From)` into `Into` and report success.

func (U PS) Shift(c Coefficient) PS
    Shift returns `c + x*U`

func (U PS) Split() [2]PS
    Split returns a pair of power series identical to the given one.

func (U PS) Subst(V PS) PS
    Subst itute V for x in U, where the constant term of V is zero:

	let U = `u + x*UU`
	let V = `v + x*VV`
	then U.Subst(V) = `u + VV * U.Subst(VV)`

    Note: Any nonzero constant term of `V` is simply ignored.

func (U PS) Times(V ...PS) PS
    Times multiplies powerseries to `U` and returns the total product.
    Tail-recursion is used to achieve this.

func (U PS) XMul() PS
    XMul multiplies `U` by `x` (by the monomial "x^1") and returns `x * U`.

SUBDIRECTORIES

	big.dch
	cmd
	rat
	rat.dch

